Enable Briefcase to package apps that weren't build with Briefcase (#2333)
beeware/briefcase: docs/how-to/external-apps.rst

============================
Packaging non-Briefcase apps
============================

By default, Briefcase assumes that you will be using Briefcase to manage the full app
packaging life cycle. In this mode, your Briefcase configuration defines all your app's
source code, dependencies, and resources; and Briefcase generates an distributable
artefact that is appropriate for the target platform.

However, Briefcase can *also* be used to package an application where the artefact to be
installed has been constructed using another tool, such as `PyInstaller
<https://pyinstaller.org/>`_ or `py2app <https://py2app.readthedocs.io/en/latest/>`_. In
this mode of operation, Briefcase can be used to convert the built artefact generated by
those tools into a fully signed, notarized artefact with an installer for the target
platform.

Briefcase refers to this mode of Briefcase usage as packaging an "external app".

Configuring an external app
---------------------------

The process of configuring an external app is mostly the same as a normal Briefcase app,

> with one important difference: you do *not* define a ``sources`` entry, but instead

Reviewer: OK, I guess porting a full Briefcase configuration to an external configuration isn't very likely anyway, so let's leave it the way it is.

> define a ``package_path``. The ``package_path`` should be the content of your build tool

Reviewer: OK, makes sense.

that you want to distribute to end users.

macOS
~~~~~

On macOS, the ``package_path`` should be the location of the ``.app`` bundle that you
want to distribute to users. It is assumed that the configured ``formal_name`` is the

> name of the app bundle (e.g., ``Hello World.app`` should use a formal name of ``Hello

Author: It looks like the formal name *is* used; it's rolled out into the template as part of the PKG installation instructions, and it's used to construct the name of the distribution archive. Those uses could *possibly* be configured to be independent... but given this is a niche use case to start with, and the complexities of explaining the subtle difference between the name of the `package_path` artefact and the `formal_name`... it's probably better to just validate and reject inconsistent `package_path` values. 

Plus, if there really is a use case for having a different formal name on one platform - it's possible to set `formal_name` in a platform configuration.

``/usr/local/bin`` when creating a :doc:`console app </how-to/cli-apps>`.

Briefcase will sign and notarize the app bundle, as well as any DMG or PKG file that is
produced.

External macOS apps must be full macOS app bundles. Briefcase cannot be used to package
standalone binaries.

Linux
~~~~~

On Linux, the ``package_path`` should be a path that contains the root of a installation
tree to be packaged. If you define a ``package_path`` of ``external``, it is assumed
that ``external/usr/bin/<app_name>`` will be the executable for your application, which will
be installed as ``/usr/bin/<app_name>``. Any other content that should be installed as
part of your app should be included in the tree contained under ``external``.

Although it is not possible to specify ``requires`` for external applications, external
Linux applications *must* define ``system_runtime_requires``. These requirements are
used to define system-level requirements in the generated system packages.

Windows
~~~~~~~

On Windows, the ``package_path`` should be the directory that contains all the content
to be installed into the end-user's Program Files directory. By default, it is assumed

> that the executable used to launch the app is named ``<package_path>/<formal name>.exe`` (or
> ``<package_path>/<formal name>.exe`` for a command-line app). If this is not the name or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that the executable used to launch the app is named ``<package_path>/<formal_name>.exe`` (or
``<package_path>/<app_name>.exe`` for a :doc:`console app </how-to/cli-apps>`). If this is not the name or
```

path to your executable, you can define ``package_binary_path`` to define the path
inside ``package_path`` to your binary. For example, a ``package_path`` value of

> ``external``, and a ``package_binary_path`` value of ``somewhere/myapp.exe``, would

Reviewer: OK, I see. In that case my only suggestion is to rename it to `package_executable_path`.

define that ``external/somewhere/myapp.exe`` is the binary that should be installed as
the application shortcut.

Customizing packaging metadata
------------------------------

In the process of packaging an external app, Briefcase will generate an application
template. The template is used to populate packaging metadata, installer and signing
configuration files. The template that is used is identical to the one used for a normal
Briefcase application; however, the packaged app will be removed from the template, and
no attempt will be made to install application dependencies, resources, or a support
package.

The files generated by the template should *not* be modified by hand. If you need to
customize the contents of these templated files, you should use Briefcase app
configuration settings to define those changes. For example, on macOS if you need to add
an entitlement for signing purposes, you should *not* modify the templated
``Entitlements.plist`` file by hand - you should use the :ref:`entitlement setting
<macos-entitlement>` in your ``pyproject.toml``.

If Briefcase's configuration options are not sufficient for your requirements, you can

> either fork the template used by Briefcase and use the ``template`` option to point at

Author: This is a situation where we hit the limits of Restructured text - because we can't put markup in a link. I'll have to investigate what can be done to make it an `:attr:` (or some other Sphinx reference that renders as a keyword).

> either fork the template used by Briefcase and use the ``template`` option to point at

Reviewer: If we have to choose between a link and monospace, I think the link is more important.

> either fork the template used by Briefcase and use the ``template`` option to point at

Author: Ok - setting this up was a bigger job than fits into this PR; I've added #2341 as a PR to add references. Which ever one lands first out of that one and this one can then update the couple of extra settings (and setting references) added by this PR.

      [helloworld] Generating application template...
      ...
      [helloworld] Packaged dist/helloworld_0.0.1-1~ubuntu-jammy_amd64.deb

    The ``dist`` folder will contain the system package that was created.

    Docker (and the ``--target`` option) *cannot* be used to package external apps for
    different operating systems.

  .. group-tab:: Windows

    .. code-block:: doscon

      (venv) C:\...>briefcase package

      [helloworld] Packaging external content from Z:\projects\helloworld\output\windows-app

      [helloworld] Generating application template...
      ...
      [helloworld] Packaged dist\Hello_World-0.0.1.msi

    The ``dist`` folder will contain the installer that was created.

Any arguments to ``briefcase package`` that are allowed for normal Briefcase apps will
also be honored for external apps. See the :doc:`documentation of the Package command
</reference/commands/package>` for details.

Briefcase will re-generate the templated app content on every invocation of ``briefcase
package``. On a second invocation of ``briefcase package`` for the same project, you
will be prompted to overwrite the application. This will only overwrite the templated

> packaging metadata, not the application itself.

Reviewer: Looks good, but there's a test failure because of backslashes on Windows.
